{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 </div>\
\
The gut biome is interesting enough, but bacteria colonize just about\
every part of the body, so recently I\'92ve been studying [my uBiome mouth\
test\
results](http://blog.richardsprague.com/2014/10/whats-in-my-microbiome.html).\
The simple [GitHub RuBiome\
utilities](https://github.com/richardsprague/uBiome) I use for analyzing\
my gut will work for that too, so here\'92s a short example of how I did\
it:\
\
First I [loaded my uBiome\
data](http://blog.richardsprague.com/2015/01/how-to-analyze-ubiome-sample-in-excel.html)\
into two variables, one for each sample: June 2014 (`junMouth`) and the\
other from October 2014 (`OctMouth`), after [a visit to my\
dentist](http://blog.richardsprague.com/2014/10/why-review-dentists.html).\
\
Let\'92s see which species are new in the later (October) sample:\
\
``` \{.r\}\
octToJunChange <- uBiome_sample_unique(OctMouth,junMouth)\
```\
\
    ##   count                        missing.tax_name\
    ## 1  3640                  bacterium NLAE-zl-P562\
    ## 2  2725                 Streptococcus sanguinis\
    ## 3  2075               Capnocytophaga gingivalis\
    ## 4  1969 Peptostreptococcus sp. oral clone FG014\
    ## 5  1618                 Granulicatella adiacens\
\
One of those species, *Streptococcus sanguinis* looks interesting.\
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Streptococcus_sanguinis) says\
this:\
\
> *S. sanguinis* is a normal inhabitant of the healthy human mouth where\
> it is particularly found in dental plaque, where it modifies the\
> environment to make it less hospitable for other strains of\
> Streptococcus that cause cavities, such as Streptococcus mutans.\
\
No cavities? Nice! More good news: this quick check confirms that I\
don\'92t have any *S. mutans*:\
\
``` \{.r\}\
OctMouth[grepl("Streptococcus",OctMouth$tax_name),]$tax_name\
```\
\
    ## [1] Streptococcus                      Streptococcus pseudopneumoniae    \
    ## [3] Streptococcus sanguinis            Streptococcus constellatus        \
    ## [5] Streptococcus anginosus group      Streptococcus sp. oral clone GM006\
    ## [7] Streptococcus thermophilus         Streptococcus oralis              \
    ## [9] Streptococcus gordonii            \
    ## 250 Levels: [Eubacterium] sulci ... Veillonellaceae\
\
Then I look at the species that disappeared (went extinct) between the\
two samples:\
\
``` \{.r\}\
junToOctChange <- uBiome_sample_unique(junMouth,OctMouth)\
```\
\
    ##   count                        missing.tax_name\
    ## 1  6034                Capnocytophaga granulosa\
    ## 2  4153 Peptostreptococcus sp. oral clone FL008\
    ## 3  3375         Prevotella sp. oral clone ID019\
    ## 4  2691                   Streptococcus rubneri\
    ## 5  1571                       Prevotella buccae\
\
Anything in the genus\
[*Capnocytophaga*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capnocytophaga) is an\
opportunistic pathogen, so I say good riddance. Usually they\'92re fine,\
but if your immune system dips they can turn bad.\
\
[Streptococcus rubneri](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23749274) was\
discovered a couple years ago, so little is known about it.\
\
[Prevotella buccae](https://microbewiki.kenyon.edu/index.php/Prevotella)\
is more interesting. It seems to be implicated in periodontal disease\
(yuk!) but that genus is involved too in breaking down proteins and\
carbohydrates.\
\
Hard to say what\'92s really going on. Meanwhile, here are the biggest\
changes (increase) since the first sample:\
\
``` \{.r\}\
junToOctCompare <- uBiome_compare_samples(junMouth,OctMouth)\
```\
\
    ##                                  tax_name count_change\
    ## 64         Streptococcus pseudopneumoniae        62007\
    ## 68         Veillonella sp. oral taxon 780         8065\
    ## 41                       Neisseria oralis         4693\
    ## 2  Abiotrophia sp. oral clone P4PA_155 P1         2308\
    ## 28                 Granulicatella elegans         1987\
\
Whoah! That first one, *Streptococcus pseudopneumoniae*, looks nasty!\
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Streptococcus_pseudopneumoniae)\
says it may cause pneumonia, though a recent medical journal says more\
hopefully that it [\'93treads the fine line between commensal and\
pathogen\'94](http://www.cmnewsletter.com/article/S0196-4399(14)00027-0/abstract?cc=y)\
\
which is a scientific gobbleygook way of saying nobody has a clue. All\
the more reason to keep testing, submitting, and getting more data. I\
just sent two more kits to uBiome, and will let you know more as soon as\
I get back the results.\
\
</div>}