{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Consolas;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Consolas-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red52\green90\blue138;\red79\green129\blue189;\red64\green112\blue160;
\red0\green112\blue32;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sb480\sa240\qc

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 Looking into my mouth microbiome\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\qc

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Richard Sprague @sprague\
2015-02-25\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb200

\f0\i\b \cf3 Richard Sprague @sprague
\i0 \

\i February 25, 2015
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb180\sa180

\f1\b0 \cf0 The gut biome is interesting enough, but bacteria colonize just about every part of the body, so recently I\'92ve been studying {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://blog.richardsprague.com/2014/10/whats-in-my-microbiome.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 my uBiome mouth test results}}. The simple {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/richardsprague/uBiome"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 GitHub RuBiome utilities}} I use for analyzing my gut will work for that too, so here\'92s a short example of how I did it:\
First I {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://blog.richardsprague.com/2015/01/how-to-analyze-ubiome-sample-in-excel.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 loaded my uBiome data}} into two variables, one for each sample: June 2014 (
\f2\fs22 junMouth
\f1\fs24 ) and the other from October 2014 (
\f2\fs22 OctMouth
\f1\fs24 ), after {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://blog.richardsprague.com/2014/10/why-review-dentists.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 a visit to my dentist}}.\
Let\'92s see which species are new in the later (October) sample:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb180\sa180

\f2\fs22 \cf0 octToJunChange <-\cf4  
\f3\b \cf5 uBiome_sample_unique
\f2\b0 \cf0 (OctMouth,junMouth)
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs22 ##   count                        missing.tax_name
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## 1  3640                  bacterium NLAE-zl-P562
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## 2  2725                 Streptococcus sanguinis
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## 3  2075               Capnocytophaga gingivalis
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## 4  1969 Peptostreptococcus sp. oral clone FG014
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## 5  1618                 Granulicatella adiacens
\f1\fs24 \
One of those species, 
\i Streptococcus sanguinis
\i0  looks interesting. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Streptococcus_sanguinis"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Wikipedia}} says this:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100

\f0\i\fs20 \cf0 S. sanguinis
\i0  is a normal inhabitant of the healthy human mouth where it is particularly found in dental plaque, where it modifies the environment to make it less hospitable for other strains of Streptococcus that cause cavities, such as Streptococcus mutans.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb180\sa180

\f1\fs24 \cf0 No cavities? Nice! More good news: this quick check confirms that I don\'92t have any 
\i S. mutans
\i0 :\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb180\sa180

\f2\fs22 \cf0 OctMouth[
\f3\b \cf5 grepl
\f2\b0 \cf0 (\cf4 "Streptococcus"\cf0 ,OctMouth$tax_name),]$tax_name
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs22 ## [1] Streptococcus                      Streptococcus pseudopneumoniae    
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## [3] Streptococcus sanguinis            Streptococcus constellatus        
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## [5] Streptococcus anginosus group      Streptococcus sp. oral clone GM006
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## [7] Streptococcus thermophilus         Streptococcus oralis              
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## [9] Streptococcus gordonii            
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## 250 Levels: [Eubacterium] sulci ... Veillonellaceae
\f1\fs24 \
Then I look at the species that disappeared (went extinct) between the two samples:\

\f2\fs22 junToOctChange <-\cf4  
\f3\b \cf5 uBiome_sample_unique
\f2\b0 \cf0 (junMouth,OctMouth)
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs22 ##   count                        missing.tax_name
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## 1  6034                Capnocytophaga granulosa
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## 2  4153 Peptostreptococcus sp. oral clone FL008
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## 3  3375         Prevotella sp. oral clone ID019
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## 4  2691                   Streptococcus rubneri
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## 5  1571                       Prevotella buccae
\f1\fs24 \
Anything in the genus {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capnocytophaga"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf3 Capnocytophaga}} is an opportunistic pathogen, so I say good riddance. Usually they\'92re fine, but if your immune system dips they can turn bad.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb180\sa180
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23749274"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Streptococcus rubneri}} was discovered a couple years ago, so little is known about it.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb180\sa180
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://microbewiki.kenyon.edu/index.php/Prevotella"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Prevotella buccae}} is more interesting. It seems to be implicated in periodontal disease (yuk!) but that genus is involved too in breaking down proteins and carbohydrates.\
Hard to say what\'92s really going on. Meanwhile, here are the biggest changes (increase) since the first sample:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb180\sa180

\f2\fs22 \cf0 junToOctCompare <-\cf4  
\f3\b \cf5 uBiome_compare_samples
\f2\b0 \cf0 (junMouth,OctMouth)
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs22 ##                                  tax_name count_change
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## 64         Streptococcus pseudopneumoniae        62007
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## 68         Veillonella sp. oral taxon 780         8065
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## 41                       Neisseria oralis         4693
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## 2  Abiotrophia sp. oral clone P4PA_155 P1         2308
\f1\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs22 ## 28                 Granulicatella elegans         1987
\f1\fs24 \
Whoah! That first one, 
\i Streptococcus pseudopneumoniae
\i0 , looks nasty! {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Streptococcus_pseudopneumoniae"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Wikipedia}} says it may cause pneumonia, though a recent medical journal says more hopefully that it {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.cmnewsletter.com/article/S0196-4399(14)00027-0/abstract?cc=y"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \'93treads the fine line between commensal and pathogen\'94}}\
which is a scientific gobbleygook way of saying nobody has a clue. All the more reason to keep testing, submitting, and getting more data. I just sent two more kits to uBiome, and will let you know more as soon as I get back the results.\
}