{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Here are my suggestions for additional reading.\
\
Read more about Toxoplasma Gondii: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2012/03/how-your-cat-is-making-you-crazy/308873/"}}{\fldrslt http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2012/03/how-your-cat-is-making-you-crazy/308873/}}\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\fs24 \cf0 This is a new field, so much of the written literature remains in academia\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs36 \cf0 Books\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\i \cf0 Missing Microbes 
\i0 by Martin Blaser\

\i The Wild Life of Our Bodies 
\i0 by Rob Dunn\

\i Plague Time: The New Germ Theory of Disease
\i0  by Paul Ewald\

\i An Epidemic of Absence: A New Way of Understanding Allergies and Autoimmune Diseases 
\i0 by Moises Velasquz-Manoff\
\
Practical\

\i Wild Fermentation: The Flavor, Nutrition, and Craft of Life Culture Foods 
\i0 Sandor Kaz\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs36 \cf0 Authors\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
Carl Zimmer\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs36 \cf0 Magazine Articles\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
GERMS ARE US\
Bacteria make us sick. Do they also keep us alive? BY MICHAEL SPECTER \
http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2012/10/22/121022fa_fact_specter?currentPage=all\
\
The Atlantic: How Your Cat Is Making You Crazy (Feb 6, 2012) http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2012/03/how-your-cat-is-making-you-crazy/308873/\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs36 \cf0 Web Sites\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://mrheisenbug.wordpress.com/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf0 http://mrheisenbug.wordpress.com/}}
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.bacteriamuseum.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://www.bacteriamuseum.org/}}\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs36 \cf0 Courseware\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
Gut Check: Exploring Your Microbiome\
\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs36 \cf0 Other\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
Foundation for Bacteriology (which, according to the Guidestar list, has not filed reports for years and may no longer exist)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Diet and nutrition
\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\i \cf0 The Paleo Manifesto: Ancient Wisdom for Lifelong Health
\i0      Durant, John\
The best summary so far of the motivation and principles of ancestral health. The author is a student of Steven Pinker\'92s, from Harvard, and writes with a general, more academic orientation rather than as a how-to manual. The basic principle, that the modern world is not our natural habitat, makes much sense, and I like the way he applies that rule to diet and exercise, plus sleep and much more.\
\

\i Paleofantasy: What Evolution Really Tells Us about Sex, Diet, and How We Live
\i0      Zuk, Marlene\
Although it tries to debunk ancestral diets with proof that ancient humans had too much variation, this book targets mostly a straw man caricature of the paleo movement, and rarely addresses the real issues. \
\

\i Why We Get Fat: And What to Do About It 
\i0     Taubes, Gary\
A well-researched, easy to read, but thorough discussion of obesity that concludes that carbohydrates, not calories, are key. The simple, seemingly obvious belief that a person\'92s weight is a function of \'93calories in and calories out\'94 will seem much less obvious and mostly wrong by the end of this book.\
\

\i All Natural: A Skeptic's Quest for Health and Happiness in an Age of Ecological Anxiety 
\i0     Johnson, Nathanael\
Although frustratingly equivocal with recommendations, I liked the survey of the advantages and disadvantages of \'93mainstream\'94 versus \'93alternative\'94 approaches to health, on everything from childbirth, vaccinations, and raw milk.\
\

\i Eating on the Wild Side: The Missing Link to Optimum Health
\i0      Robinson, Jo\
A highly practical summary of fruits and vegetables: which are good for you and why. Every page is full of interesting, often counter-intuitive tips to eat more healthily. Examples: frozen blueberries are just as healthy as fresh, but broccoli loses most of its nutrition within hours after picking. Carrots cooked with butter are much healthier than raw.\
\

\i In Defense of Food: An Eater's Manifesto
\i0 		Pollan, Michael\
If you\'92re confused about diet, this is the best advice yet. \'93Eat food. Not too much. Mostly plants\'94. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Far out theories
\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\i \cf0 Plague Time: The New Germ Theory of Disease 
\i0     Ewald, Paul\
Published in 2002, this book raises the intriguing possibility that most (perhaps all) serious diseases are caused by infections. Certain types of cancers (e.g. HPV) are already known to have viral origins, but imagine how our thinking would change if \'97 when \'97 someday science discovers infectious agents behind other cancers and heart disease. Reading this with other books about the role of microbes has made me far more sensitive to the possibility that science and medicine could one day undergo a huge shift in the way that diseases are diagnosed and treated.\
\

\i An Epidemic of Absence: A New Way of Understanding Allergies and Autoimmune Diseases
\i0      Velasquez-Manoff, Moises\
Another book that explains a provocative idea that our immune systems need regular stimulation by parasites and other infectious agents, or we risk unpleasant side effects in the form of allergies, diabetes, and many other nasty conditions. The remarkable correlation between the hygiene  of modernity and the rise of autoimmune diseases makes for powerful evidence that science is far behind in understanding all the consequences of our current lifestyles.}