{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 We don\'92t normally pay much attention to the role that microbes play in our daily lives, other than as an annoyance that occasionally makes us sick. But the more that scientists uncover, the more it becomes clear that something this old and ubiquitous is not nearly as hands-off as we think.\
\
[Examples of microbes that can affect the brain ]\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs36 \cf0 Microbes can change the brain\'92s personality\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf0 Toxoplasma Gondii is a tiny microbe that, for some reason, only likes to reproduce from within the gut of a cat. It can be found in almost all warm-blooded mammals, including humans \'97 about 30% of us, according to some estimates, and that\'92s after a century of obsession with hygiene that has wiped out countless other tiny inhabitants of the body.\
T. Gondii seem harmless because its hosts appear to show no differences before or after \'93infection\'94 except in one creature: the mouse. When it finds itself ingested by a mouse, it appears to fade away quietly. MRI scans show large amounts in the gut for a week or two, gradually decreasing until there is apparently nothing. Except: tiny T. Gondii cysts begin to show up in the mouse\'92s brain. Not everywhere, but in just a few strategic places.\
Then something strange happens: the mouse is suddenly attracted to cat urine. And note: its only attraction is to 
\i cat
\i0  urine, not rabbits, not humans \'97 only cats. Everything else about the mouse appears normal. It still seems to be afraid of the other things that scare mice: other predators, stressful situations. But put a T. Gondii-affected mouse into a maze with different animal urine in the corners and it will rush to the cat side every time.\
\
How is it that T. Gondii is able to be so precise in its effects? It only seems to affect mice, and even then it only apparently makes them attracted to cats. It doesn\'92t apparently cause any other harm to its hosts, so \'97 somehow \'97 it must have found a resting place right at the spot in the mouse brain that affects its interest in cats.\
\
Although there doesn\'92t seem to be any major negative consequences to humans hosting T. Gondii, some scientists aren\'92t sure. One man in particular, Jaroslav Flegr, an evolutionary biologist at Charles University in Prague, thinks he has evidence that women who carry it might be more trusting than those who don\'92t. \
\
T.Gondii isn\'92t the only microbe known to affect the behavior of its host. A more common example is the rabies virus, which upon infection somehow causes a mammal to be more agitated, more likely to strike out \'97 or bite \'97 other humans, thereby spreading itself.\
\
Or syphilus, the disease spread by the bacterium [syphilius] and causes its host to go insane. The microbe is somehow able to infect the mind of the victim.\
In general, sexually transmitted diseases are especially likely to have behavioral consequences. A sexual disease that produces symptoms is unlikely to spread, yet it still requires contact with a new victim. Perhaps the ideal vector is a behavioral change, making the host more likely to come in contact with a new host.\
\
Think about this too much, and you'll end up with the obvious question: what other weird microbes are infecting us right now? Can we explain some of our own behaviors this way? Is there a human equivalent of these infections, driving us to do things we \'93ordinarily\'94 wouldn't do? And maybe these microbes are so ubiquitous, teeming all over us and in our brains, maybe there's no way to even know what \'93ordinary\'94 or \'93normal\'94 human behavior is.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\
}