{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The uBiome JSON taxonomy file is extremely helpful at giving you a short summary of what you care about most in a sample: the organisms within it and their relative amounts. But even with these annotations, there\'92s a limit to what you can learn in a single sample. To be able to start hacking your microbiome, you will need to learn how to compare multiple samples.\
There are two main things you\'92ll want to measure when comparing two samples:\
\
\

\b Uniqueness
\b0 : which organisms are found in only one sample and not the other? If you are comparing two samples from the same individual (e.g. Yourself), then uniqueness is another way of talking about either 
\i extinctions
\i0  (when a taxon has disappeared entirely in a later sample) and 
\i appearances
\i0  (when a new taxon magically shows up). In other words, you care a lot about the order in which the samples were taken.\
On the other hand, if you\'92re comparing two separate individuals, then the ordering of the samples doesn\'92t matter. Uniqueness just tells which organisms are unique to a specific person.\
\

\b Relative abundance
\b0 : which person has more of which organism? There are two senses in which we care about the relative frequency of an organism\'92s occurrence in a sample. You might care, among all the taxons found, which ones are more highly represented in 
\i absolute
\i0  amounts?  Or you might care on a relative basis. To help understand why this matters, it may help to think of the following specific example:\
In many Americans the phylum 
\i Firmicutes 
\i0 makes up a majority of the sample, often reaching 60% or more. You might find two people, one who has 60% 
\i Firmicutes
\i0  and the other with 30% \'97 only half as much. The relative difference is 2x and the absolute difference is 30 percentage points.\
On the other hand, you might find 
\i Bifidobacterium
\i0  makes up 10% of the first sample and 5% of the second. In this case, the relative difference is 2x \'97 just like the 
\i Firmicutes
\i0  case \'97 but the 
\i absolute
\i0  difference is only 5 percentage points, much less than in the first example. \
The built-in uBiome web tools look for 
\i relative
\i0  differences. A taxon might be a minuscule component of both samples, but when you start from a small base, even a few additional organisms can make up a big percentage change. In the extreme case, a sample with a 
\b count_norm
\b0  of 100 compared to another sample with a 
\b count_norm
\b0  of 300 will show a 3X increase \'97 very high in aBiome terms, even though the absolute difference is only 300 - 100 = 200 organisms.\
Compare that with a an organism with a 
\b count_norm 
\b0 of 50,000 in one sample and 51,000 in another sample. UBiome\'92s algorithms will treat these as a virtual tie, even though the absolute number of organisms in the second sample outnumber the first by 1,000 organisms.\
\
Which method of measuring is better? It depend on what you care more about.  Some species need have only a tiny representation in a sample to make a big difference in health outcomes. \
I prefer to use both methods of measurement: absolute number changes matter for the most popular taxons, and relative amounts matter more for the less-popular ones.\
\
\
\
\
\
}