{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red35\green35\blue35;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 The Gut Guardians\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf0 Grace Liu is a PharmD from the Bay Area who has been fascinated by the gut microbiome for many years. She focuses on the following organisms she calls the \'93gut guardians\'94, the keystone species that, when properly groomed will keep pathogenic organisms at bay and ensure the overall health of the body\'92s ecosystem.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 The importance of butyrate\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
The cells lining your intestines will die without proper nourishment, and a key food they expect is butyrate, a type of short-chain fatty acid. Fortunately, your colon is covered with bacteria that can ferment plant fiber, producing butyrate as a by-product.\
From Wikipedia:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \{\\Scrv_ps=
\f0\fs28 Butyrates are important as food for cells lining the mammalian colon (colonocytes). Without butyrates for energy, colon cells undergo autophagy (self digestion) and die.[1] Short-chain fatty acids, which include butyrate, are produced by beneficial colonic bacteria (probiotics) that feed on, or ferment prebiotics, which are plant products that contain adequate amounts of dietary fiber. These short-chain fatty acids benefit the colonocyte by increasing energy production,and cell proliferation and may protect against colon cancer.[2]\
\
Butyrate is a major metabolite in colonic lumen arising from bacterial fermentation of dietary fiber and has been shown to be a critical mediator of the colonic inflammatory response. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \\end_Scrv_ps\}
\f0\b Faecalibacterium prausnitzii\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1369527413000775"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1369527413000775}}\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\{\\Scrv_ps=
\f2\i\fs32 Faecalibacterium prausnitzii
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 is the most abundant bacterium in the human intestinal microbiota of healthy adults, representing more than 5% of the total bacterial population. Over the past five years, an increasing number of studies have clearly described the importance of this highly metabolically active commensal bacterium as a component of the healthy human microbiota. Changes in the abundance of 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
F. prausnitzii
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 have been linked to dysbiosis in several human disorders. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl473

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \\end_Scrv_ps\}
\f0\fs28 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 Roseburia\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf0 This genus, under the phylum 
\i firmicutes
\i0 , is known to be associated with health.\
\
\
Christensenellaceae\
Christensenella\
Akkermansia\
Bifidobacteria longum\
Bifidobacterium\
\
B. Longum as % of total Bifido\
Bacteroidetes/Firmicutes ratio\
\
}