{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1347\cocoasubrtf570
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Questions: what is a \'93microbe\'94?\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 Answer: it\'92s a microorganism, the focus of the field of microbiology, and including everything from bacteria to single-\
\
A gene is an instruction for making a protein. There are roughly 30,000 genes in your body, so there should be at least 30,000 proteins floating about, though actually it\'92s much more complicated. The gene represents the 
\i instructions
\i0 , but which proteins are expressed depends on a complex interaction among the rest of your DNA and its environment. The science of  figuring it all out is called 
\i proteomics
\i0 , and it\'92s difficult to say exactly how many proteins are produced in your body.\
One reason it\'92s difficult is that 
\i you
\i0  don\'92t produce all the proteins. In fact, 
\i you
\i0  carry many more genes than the 30,000 that we find from sequencing the human genome. The other genes \'97 roughly ten times as many as those carried by your DNA \'97are from various other microbial life forms that are found all over, and often inside your body. The collection of all the genes expressed by these tiny microbes is called the 
\i micro biome
\i0 , and it\'92s enormous.\
Most microbes are bacteria, and for our purposes you can assume that\'92s what we mean, though in reality there are others: archaea (the most ancient form of life, similar to bacteria and generally found in extremely hostile environments), viruses (which are tricky to describe as \'93life\'94 because they don\'92t reproduce without help from other cells), and the viruses that plague bacteria (called 
\i phages
\i0 ). Each of these has a role to play in the kinds of proteins that appear in your body, though precisely which one does what is a very complicated question that science is only beginning to explore systematically.\
In the olden days, before the development of gene sequencing technology, scientists studying these tiny non-human lifeforms within us had to take a sample from your body (skin, feces, nose, genitals), place it into a petri dish with some kind of broth known to be good for bacterial growth, and wait a few days to see what shows up. Bacteria reproduce asexually, through mitosis cell division, and when the conditions are right they can quickly go from just a few organisms to enough to be seen by the visible eye \'97 sometimes in just a few hours. Nevertheless this traditional way of studying the micro biome was very time-consuming and often hit-or-miss: although 
\i many
\i0  bacteria reproduce well outside the body, many \'97 perhaps 
\i most
\i0  \'97 don\'92t. And even if you are fortunate enough \'97 or clever and persistent enough \'97 to grow a significant number of bacteria this way, there are limits to what you can find from simply observing them. It\'92s difficult to uncover the relationships (taxonomy) among different species, and often you\'92re forced to rely simply on judgement calls based on the shape, size, or other physical characteristics of the organism.\
Gene sequencing technology changed all of that, especially since the middle of the first decade of the 21
\fs18 \super st
\fs28 \nosupersub  century, when sequencing machines became much faster and lower cost. Instead of trying to 
\i grow 
\i0 each bacterium into a large enough colony to study, scientists can now simply scoop up an entire field of goop \'97 from the skin, the feces, nose, etc. \'97 And then drop the entire thing into a gene sequencer to see at a glance
\i  all
\i0  of the genes in the sample. It\'92s this technology that enabled scientists to see how the genes of the micro biome had been vastly undercounted. Even if we can\'92t directly see the specific organisms that are making these genes, we can see the genes themselves, and then through clever software we can reconstruct the DNA for each organism.\
The result is a lot of genes, as we said, at least 10x the number harbored by the DNA in each of your body cells. Now, those genes aren\'92t necessarily 
\i all 
\i0 making proteins that affect the body. In fact, many \'97 perhaps most \'97 of the genes are expressing something needed for the bacteria themselves: for example, instructions for how to make its cell wall, or how to reproduce. Antibiotics often target one of these bacteria-only processes in order to \'93gum up the works\'94 of the bacterial life cycle without directly affecting human genes, whose own processes are governed through a whole different set of genes. Nevertheless, a great many of these microbial genes 
\i do
\i0  play a role in the body, often a major one, and these are the ones that interest us here.}