{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Every human body is home to a rich environment of tiny living organisms, trillions of them, with their own genes, their own ways of living and surviving, and their own long histories, permanently intertwined with humanity since the beginning. These microbes inhabit every possible niche inside and outside the body. Covering every inch of skin, lining every part of the nose and ears, they have burrowed deep inside nearly every organ, consuming as well as producing, living in such quantities that together they would weigh somewhere between three and five pounds \'97 about as much as the brain.\
\
\
\
 A typical human will have somewhere between{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://EC5B780B-FE3A-4500-A64F-7809602A0CEB"}}{\fldrslt  [n and m]}} individual cells \'97 blood, skin, neurons, other tissues \'97 each descended from a single germ cell, the fertilized egg that began dividing itself and multiplying after the moment of conception. By contrast, microbes had to hitch their own rides later, beginning in the womb and turning into a flood at the moment of birth and beyond. But each microbe, like each human cell, remains deeply interconnected with the fates of all the other cells, all the way to the moment of death, and even after that.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs36 \cf0 Your Appendix\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
Somewhere near the border between the small intestine and the large intestine (colon), there is a small, pinkie-like appendage bulging inconspicuously into the abdominal cavity. For most of the period of modern western medicine, nobody knew its function, other as a source of severe pain when it occasionally exploded in infections that until the development of antibiotics were usually fatal.\
Fun fact: the only death among the hundred or so frontiersmen and explorers on the Lewis and Clark expedition in the early 1800s was caused by appendicitis \'97 a terrible, painful death in the wilderness but one that would have been just as inevitable at the finest hospitals in the world at the time.\
What\'92s known is that the appendix apparently houses three things: tissue from the immune system, a bunch of what are called IgA antibodies that fight infections, and tons of bacteria. What\'92s also known is that people who have their appendix removed surgically \'97 usually as a result of one of those terrible infections \'97 recover to live apparently normal lives, with no side effects even decades upon decades later. So what is the appendix doing?\
One clue comes from a recent study of 254 patients recovering from a 
\i C.
\i0  
\i Difficil
\i0  infection, a horridly tenacious bacterium that has gained near-complete resistance to antibiotics and is notoriously difficult to treat. In the study, those with an appendix saw their infections come back 11% of the time, but those with no appendix suffered re-infection rates of 44% \'97 a large and significant difference that has caused most scientists to speculate that the appendix is harboring something that enables the body to recover after a microbial disaster.\
My own interest in this subject is not idle curiosity. About fifty years ago, doctors at a small town hospital gave an appendectomy to my five-year-old self in order to treat an unusual belly ache. While doing what was apparently an exploratory surgery to find the cause, they came upon my otherwise healthy-looking appendix and decided on the spot to simply remove it. \'93Why not?\'94 I\'92m sure they thought at the time. \'93If nothing else, it\'92ll prevent him from appendicitis\'94, which is as tautologically sound a reason as any.}