{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 What is A/B testing?\
\
[Here\'92s a discussion of the science behind A/B testing, why it\'92s important to compare apples to apples, etc.]\
[This text is mostly a placeholder for now:]\
Humans, like computers, can be broadly described in terms of software and hardware. Our software includes things like language, culture, education, behaviors \'97 the aspects of ourselves that seem most flexible, even arbitrary, but which define us as individuals. There are many ways to improve your software: through education, reading, or interesting conversations with others.\
To improve your hardware, you can of course measure various things about yourself: temperature, blood tests, activity levels. Wearable sensors like the Apple Watch are making this much easier, and in the near future you\'92ll see an explosion of new and better ways to measure your body\'92s hardware and with better, more actionable measurement come many ways to modify and optimize your health along the way. All of these new wearable computing devices recognize that you are a unique individual and that we always should treat the patient, not the statistics. So what is the part of you that is fundamentally you?\
The obvious place to start is with DNA, and our human genes. I was excited when 23andme (and other services) came out about ten years ago, letting each of us inexpensively see our internal hardware, perhaps to learn more about the things that make us unique, and maybe peer into our futures, to the degree that biological traits like susceptibility to various diseases or conditions is hereditary and unchangeable.\
But after a while I realized how little of what we learn about DNA is actionable. If you find you have the \'93gene for\'94  Alzheimer\'92s disease or Parkinson\'92s, or any of the other traits that have been linked to specific genes, what can you do about it? In nearly every case, the advice is exactly what you should be doing even if you don't have that trait: eat well and get lots of exercise.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs36 \cf0 Example Experiments\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf0 The best way to start is to experiment on yourself. Here are a few examples:\
\
[Note: in this draft these examples are mostly unedited from blog posts.  Need to update them and make them fit the rest of the book, but are here as examples to give the basic idea]\
\
}